Sana---Goals/Work-Norms
Goals:
1. For everyone in the group to work well together in the team, and respect each other.
2. For all team emebers to respect each others time, by completing all tasks in a timely manner, staying up to date with all assignemnts, and attending all meetings on time.
3. For all team members to put in all their efforts to keep up SCRUM methodology in all their work and meetings.
4. To gain a more intimate knowledge of the software life cycle by working as a group to
develop a quality product worth an “A”.
5. To attain practical knowledge and experience of what it means to be a software engineer
and to familiarize ourselves with the methods and practices that are required to pull
together a team project.
6. To all combine our personal expertise to create the best product as possible, while also learning to be better developers and team members.


Work Norms:
1. Time commitment required by each group member :
Time commitment is a difficult thing to determine seeing one member may be able to
complete the same job in a less amount of time. The goal is to complete the job. If one
member is taking a substantial amount of time more than the others, it will be examined
by the group as to whether his work load should be decreased.

2. Dealing with different work habits:
The work habits of any particular member will not be an issue as long as the member
communicates progress, produces quality work, and the work is done by the dates
established by the group. If the member does not meet these standards, procedures to deal
with that member are further detailed in the ground rules.

3. Keeping up with communication:
Each member will be expected to be consistent with attending meetings and sharing what they have accomplished according to SRUM guidelines. 
All memebers will be expected to inform if they cannot attend a meeting about 24 hours beforehand, and be consistent with keeping up with their assigned work.
=======
Danny --- Participation

1. Group participation:  
If a group member is not participating enough and not providing enough feedback to the group  
it will be the group's decision to ask them if they need to share more or less. They can be given one  
week to add to the group work and if not, it will be brought up to the group for discussion.  
If a group member is oversharing or overworking on the assignment, by not giving other members a 
 chance to add to the work, the group can choose to redistribute tasks   
 

2. Work not up to standard:  
If you cannot meet your work standards for the given deadline it will be up to  
the group to distribute that task to the other group members. The group member will then  
must perform extra work for the next week to make up for the work lost. The standard  
of work will be decided in the meeting by the other group members. Work can be not up  
to standard if the group member has given a 24-hour notice or in case of an emergency.  
In that case a volunteer will take the workload and if not, then the group will decide  
who can best complete the task. If a member continuously does not meet expectations, then,  
disciplinary procedure will be taken 
 

3. Group members unprepared: 
If a group member comes unprepared to a meeting without a valid excuse they will be given 
a grace period between meetings, this is different from work not up to standard. If a member  
comes to the next group meeting unprepared then disciplinary action will be taken 
 

4. Workload too heavy:  
If the workload becomes too heavy for a group member, then firstly the other group  
members should try to pick up the shortcomings of the other one. If this does not  
work and all other members of the group become overwhelmed the group will email  
"The Rock" to ask for additional help and or time 

=======

Mike-->-Disciplinary-Procedures
Hello this is our lab charter
1. Regarding disciplinary actions: 
Any disciplinary action to be administered can be overridden by group conscience, if 
decided by a majority vote. 
 
2. Disciplinary Log: 
The note taker will be responsible for logging any information on offenses committed by 
any member. This report will be sent out with the meeting notes every week so each 
member knows where they stand.  
 
3. Minor Group Offence: 
A minor group offence can occur for breaking indicated statutes of the charter. Minor 
offecnces will be discussed as a group with the offender in question. Group expectations 
wil be reitterated to ensure all group members are on the same page.
 
4. Major Group Offence: 
A major group offence can occur by breaking indicated statutes of the charter, or for 
accumulation of 3 or more minor offences. Major offences will be discussed with the group
and TA as a moderator. A solutioin to the issue in question will be agreed upon by end of 
meeting.
 
5. Punishment and Dismissal: 
A group member committing enough minor and major offences will finally have gone to 
the dark side and demoted to Darth Vader. They will be referred to punishment and 
dismissal and will be given over to review by the TA and governing bodies (the Rock). 
An email describing the offences leading up to punishment and dismissal will be.
=======
Meetings: 
  1) Length of meetings:
Daily SCRUMS will be twice every week, excluding the lab meeting, for no longer than an hour, unless it is decided by the group that additional meetings should be scheduled. Meetings will be every lab (the whole 2 hours), every Thursday from 7PM-8PM, and Saturday from 4PM to 5PM. This communication should be made through Discord within 24 meetings before the next meeting. It is understod that if a meeting takes too long, members may have to leave for classes or work obligations. This type of situation will not constitute an offense.
The purpose of meetings is to check in on tasks and continue with analyzing PBIs. Required questions to be answered include
a) What did you complete since the last meeting?
b) What do you still need to accomplish within your assigned tasks?
c) What did you struggle with your tasks and what could be done to fix this?
       
  2) Missing a meeting:
An occasional missing of a meeting can be accepted. If, however, an individual misses a meeting two times in a row or without a good cause, some disciplinary action may have to be taken. Acceptable justification of a missed meeting includes, but is not limited to: injury, illness, family emergency, work, conflicting class schedule, or death (yourself or other). If a meeting is missed for any other reason, the affected group members will decide as to whether the reason for missing the meeting is acceptable or in need of disciplinary action. Two meetings missed in a row without Discord-messaged valid excuse within 24 hrs will result in a minor offense. Three will result in a major offense. 

3) Tardiness to meetings:
A person being obviously late for a meeting and not fitting the structure of 'on time' shall be given over to disciplinary action as as described in minor offense. On time means the time the meeting is scheduled to start (7PM on Thursday and 4PM on Saturday). If an individual arrives at the meeting after the start time and the meeting has yet to get into purposeful conversation, then it may be overlooked. However, if there is no good excuse for being late and the meeting is clearly underway when the individual arrives, at the end of the meeting it will be discussed as to whether disciplinary action will have to be taken. Being late to a meeitng more than once constitutes a minor offence. Records of being late will be recorded by group note taker.

4) Phone use during meetings:
As we only have an hour each week to meet, it should not be too much to ask that outside phone calls/texts/general use should be prohibted unless they are perceived to be an emergency. The taking of phone calls/texts/general use will come into question if they are taken often during meetings and the offender will be politely asked to discontinue. If the behavior continues, it will be discussed among the group as to whether it should be a minor offense. Checking a text message will be allowed as well as sending an occassional text to let someone know you are in a meeting and will get back to them. However, social texting will not be allowed and the offender will again be politely asked to stop. If the behavior ontinues, it will be discussed among the gorup as to whether it should be a minor offense.

5) Casual chatting during meetings:
Due to the limited time frame of meetings, they must remain efficient and stick to project-related topics. If casual conversation does interrupt the meeting, redirection must be made within the minute to continue on the topic of the projet. If casual chatting continues, group conversation of how to handle distractions can take place after project-related topics have fully been covered. This discipline includes separating the chattier group members or directing attention using lists/white board/taking over the screen share. Additionally, after project-related topics have fully been convered, casual conversation can take place.

communication-syeda

Group communication and interaction:  
 
1. Regular communication: 
Group Charter: Your Team Name  
Regular communication : 
   Twice a week besides lab on discord
   Take meeting notes on drive that everyone can see
 
2. Group communication on tardiness/missed meetings and meeting information: 
    State 24 hours before if you are missing a meeting
    Also let people know if you are going to be late 
    All meeting infromation on google drive 
 
3. Communication ethics: 
    We figure things out as a group if there is any opinions that are there. If not then we ask our TA, and if still not resolved we ask Professor Rock. 
 
4. Group structure: 
The group shall have the following roles to help the group be more efficient: 

Yoda(Leader) – Kaille

R2-D2 (Note takes)– Sana 

Han Solo(Agenda Maker) – Danny

Group Charter: Team The Hunters

Make progess and share it every 2 days. If someone misses a meeting let 
 
5. Decision making: 
Any decisions which need to be made about the project, project direction or disciplinary 
action will be made by a majority vote. Any decisions about delegation will be covered in 
part six. 
 
6. Group decisions on delegation: 
We will all ask or assign members according to what they would like to have. 
=======

